---
layout: post
title: The Road So Far
---

Well as as all know **Life is a Bitch** and **Karma** too. Its 27th of January and my next semester at college is starting soon. I really look forward to it, partially because I am super bored at home and mostly because I have hope that I will probably get to do stuff that I have always missed out on.
I have always felt that I have msised out on a lot of fun owing to my priorities, my incapabilities and other factors. I still find it a little awkward to accept that I am from Chandiagarh and I have still never been to a club. Yes I know, this makes it look like how screwed up my priorities are but then damn it, I am going to 21 in some days and I have never been a freaking club.

The road so far has been marked with failures, average results and occasional stand outs. I still remember 7th grade when I was in Trivandrum and life was easier as compared to today. Performing at school and an all India exam (N.S.T.S.E) was all that parents asked of me. I tried hard achieving both, though I never really got a result in the all india talent search exam but I still managed to outperform my classmates at school. School has always been easy given that I was always made complete my school syllabus of Mathematics and Science in the summer vacations nearly an year ahead of the school schedule. Also preparing for a talent search examination through out the year helped me drive past the school in a ferrari (Don't mock at my expression. I have been out of practice). I still remember the countless Famous Fives and Hardy Boys that I finished back then. Life started showing its true colors after I moved to Chandigarh. I never really knew that getting into an IIT was so freaking difficult and so began the rigorous schedule of 11th and 12th grade. I put aside everything I liked, sacrificed almost all of my social life hoping to perform in my tuiton exams. I fumbled with my tuiton ranks in 11th grade, learnt from 11th and managed to put up a better but still not good enough show in 12th. At the end of 12th, after the results of the numerous entrance exams I had given were out, I realised that instead of being able to perform really well in one particular exam, I ended up performing above average in almost all the exams I gave. None of my tuiton teachers never asked about me even though they personally called my other classmates with worse ranks and congratulated them. This is something I always remember because it tells me how much everyone cares about results. Anyhow I never expected them to call me either, I never really was among their favorites. I was more of a creepy guy sitting in a corner trying to fight his way through the system and working harder and harder because he didn't have a choice. I would see guys who could solve advanced intergral calculus questions which so much ease that it made me feel hollow in the gut. But I never really accepted that they could have been naturally gifted or anything. I always ended up blaming myself for not practising harder and thus I did practise harder.  

Given the choices I had at that time, I have always looked back and thanked my then-self for the decision of choosing IIT-Mandi over medical college (Yes I cracked AIPMT and Chandigarh CET too). Life in IIT has made me what I am if ofcourse I am something. I have never really met a crowd so diverse, guys so talented and people so intelligent. No doubt there are always pricks and A-Holes everywhere but still I got to befriend some of the coolest dickheads I have ever met. I guess this is what everyone always meant when they said, getting into an IIT gives you the exposure that you don't get in other colleges. I tried performing in college, was again average, tried harder and that too when I had so many interesting distractions. Intially I too tried to adhere to the basics and read all the books given thinking that gaininng knowledge and understanding was the key to performing in semester exams. But soon after sophomore year I realised that it is easier to break the system with last night group studies and memorizing solved tutorials and predicting the questions to be asked. The grades started improving, and I suddenly had more time. I for a change started enjoying life with friends. Started going on Hikes and trekking trips. I even visited places, not many but still I came out of my self loathing nature and actually developed a liking for travel. Then came the placement season, and I with allthe hard  work, my friends's guidance and a little bit of luck (maybe and maybe not) performed. What a  relief. Life suddenly looked better and not so bitchy. I believe I had managed to bridge the gap that I had created when I couldn't get into the old IITs. Probably the best day marked by the best achievement in the 4 years that I were to complete at college. 

Now I when I look at the bigger picture, I realise that it has always been a game of hope. Whenever you have hope, You have something to look forward to, something to try harder to, A direction! 
<div class="message"> <i> " Hope is a good thing and the thing about good things is that no good thing ever dies" -Shawshank Redemption </i> </div> 
Its obvious now why I look forward to my next and the last semester at college, because I am hopeful of doing stuff at college, creating memories and enjoying life. I am even hopeful of meeting new people, geting better exposure at my job place afterwards. May be that's how far I can think or may be there is even a broader picture to all this and I am surely as hell "hoping" to get a look of that too! 
 
